Hi, I'm Eryk Vershen,
Media Technologies Evangelist.
AirPlay is an exciting new technology
that lets users stream your application's
audio and video to high-definition
displays and high-fidelity audio systems.
With AirPlay mirroring,
content can be displayed
on a nearby Apple TV,
allowing everyone in the room
to see what's on your screen.
In this video,
you'll learn about AirPlay audio,
AirPlay video, and AirPlay mirroring,
and how easy it is to support
these in your application.
Imagine you're listening to music
with your headphones on your iPhone,
and you come home,
and with a few gestures on your phone,
your music is now playing through
your home stereo speakers.
Or imagine that you're watching
a movie on your iPad 2.
You come into your office where
you have a TV with an Apple TV,
and with a few gestures,
the movie is now playing on the
TV for your colleagues to see.
Or imagine that you're playing a game on
your iPad 2 and you come into your family
room where you have a TV and an Apple TV.
You make a few gestures on your
iPad and now the game state is on
your big TV with a controller and
extra information on your iPad.
Well, you don't have to imagine it.
It's AirPlay and it's already here.
There are three parts to AirPlay: audio,
video, and mirroring.
I'll talk about each one in turn.
Let's start with the AirPlay audio.
AirPlay Audio delivers audio
to any AirPlay receiver:
an Apple TV, an Airport Express,
or any of several
third-party audio receivers.
The user's experience with
AirPlay should be familiar.
Your controls might look like this.
When the user comes in range
of an AirPlay receiver,
the route button will appear so
that the user can choose a route.
When the user selects the route button,
they will get a menu
of AirPlay receivers.
Let's say they choose
the living room speakers.
When they select, it will be checked.
which will dismiss the menu,
the route button will now show blue
to indicate that audio is being
routed away from the iOS device,
and audio will be sent
to the AirPlay receiver.
So how do you support AirPlay audio?
Well, there are four steps.
The first step is to
provide a route button.
If you're using
MP Movie Player controller,
then you get a route button as
part of the standard controls.
Otherwise, you should use MP Volume View.
This provides a volume
slider and a route picker.
The system handles the details.
It detects the presence of
AirPlay receivers and presents the list.
You can't synthesize this yourself
if you don't have access to
a list of AirPlay receivers.
Using MP Volume View is straightforward.
You allocate and init an MP Volume View,
tell it to display the route button,
and add the view to your view hierarchy.
The route button is visible by default,
so you don't have to set it.
You can also not show the volume slider.
Simply set "shows volume
slider" to "no." Now,
some developers have asked about
not showing a route button.
That's not a good idea.
Any other app can change
the route behind your back,
so all you're doing is making
things hard for your user.
The second thing you need to do
is handle remote control events.
There are a number of
remote control events.
For example,
Toggle Play/Pause from the headphones,
or Next Track from the lock screen,
or any of this list of events.
Most of these can be delivered
from the headphones using
double and triple clicks.
As I've already mentioned,
you can get remote control
events from headphones and
via the lock screen controls.
They also come from the multitasking bar,
from AirPlay devices,
from Bluetooth devices,
and from MFI accessories.
With so many ways of control,
it's very clear that you
should support remote control.
Handling remote control is not difficult.
First your view must implement
can become first responder.
Next, when your view appears,
you must tell the application object
that you want to receive remote control
events and become first responder.
While you are first responder,
events will come into your remote
control received with event method.
You need to make sure that it is a
remote control event and then look at
the subtype to determine the exact event.
If you implement nothing else,
you should implement toggle play pause.
This is the most common event.
When your view goes away,
you must be a good citizen by telling
the application object that you no
longer want remote control events
and resigning first responder.
The third thing you need to do
is provide now playing info.
Imagine the user is sending audio
from your app to the Apple TV.
If you do not provide now playing info,
then the user will see
something like this,
that is nothing.
Instead,
they should see something like this,
artwork, title, album, and so on.
You make this possible
with a now playing info.
Now playing info is also provided on the
lock screen and in the multitasking bar.
are.
To set Now Playing Info, you use the
MPNowPlayingInfoCenter object.
It's a singleton object that you
use to communicate with a system.
It's not tied to any particular
way of delivering media.
It works with MPMoviePlayerController,
AVPlayer, AudioCue, AudioUnits,
and so on.
It's another reason to
support remote control events.
The information is only used if your
app is receiving remote control events.
To support this,
you need to get together the
metadata about your audio,
and you want to provide as
much metadata as you can.
To pass it,
all you do is create an NSDictionary.
The keys identify artist, title, artwork,
and so on.
Then you ask the MP Now Playing Info
Center for the default center object
and simply assign your dictionary as the
value of the Now Playing Info property.
You should, of course,
change this each time the song changes.
Here's a list of the available metadata:
title, artist, artwork, genre, and so on.
I want to mention elapsed
playback time in particular.
You don't need to repeatedly set this.
From the time and playback rate,
the system knows how
to update this value.
You should reset it only when you've
done a seek to some other point in
the media or when the song changes.
The system controls how
your info is displayed.
You have no control over the formatting.
The information is also available
to Bluetooth accessories via the
Audio/Video Remote Control Protocol and
to MFI accessories.
The fourth step is to support
background playback if it
makes any sense for your app.
If the primary thing your
application does is play audio,
then users expect that audio to
continue to play in the background.
And in iOS 5.0, your app goes into the
background when the screen locks.
There are two main things you have
to do to support background playback.
You need to add the AppPlaysAudio
item to the required background
modes in your info.p list.
And you need to set your
audio session to playback.
If you are unfamiliar
with audio sessions,
you should watch the
presentation from WWDC 2011
Audio Session Management for iOS.
So,
four steps to supporting AirPlay audio:
adding a route button,
handling remote control events,
providing now playing info,
and supporting background playback.
Now we turn to AirPlay Video.
When we use AirPlay Video,
we are sending a file to the Apple TV.
But if that file is
coming from the network,
the Apple TV may be
fetching it independently.
However, even in that case,
the iOS device is still being made
aware of the state of the playback.
The user experience for AirPlay video is
very similar to that of AirPlay audio.
The typical video playback
controls look like this.
When an AirPlay receiver is in range,
then the system makes the
route button visible so that
the user can choose a route.
When the user clicks the route button,
they get a menu of possible destinations.
Notice that now some of the selections
have a TV icon instead of a speaker icon.
The user chooses one,
say the Family Room Apple TV.
The new selection is now checked and
the user returns to the regular screen.
The route button has turned blue
again to indicate that content
is routed away from the device.
And now the video no longer
shows on the screen because
it's routed to the Apple TV.
[Transcript missing]
The fourth thing you need to do is
don't leave the user in the dark.
What do I mean by that?
When the user redirects video to AirPlay,
then the video stops playing in
whatever view you had on screen.
That is, it goes black.
This isn't the best experience.
What you need to do is give the
user a gentle hint that they've
sent their movie off somewhere else.
Let them know where to look.
If you're using
MP Movie Player Controller to
display your video,
then you don't need to do anything.
The framework does it for you.
But if you're using AVPlayer,
the framework can't do it for you.
So you have to do it yourself.
You do this by key value
observing the AirPlayVideoActive
property on the AVPlayer object.
When the observed value
for key path comes in,
you should already be on the main queue,
at least if you did your add
observer on the main thread,
which is what you should have done.
You can then update your UI based
on the current value of the
AirPlay video active property.
So that's the four steps for
supporting AirPlay video.
Provide a route button,
handle remote control events, turn it on,
and don't leave the user in the dark.
Last, let's turn to AirPlay mirroring.
We've been able to support a second
display via a hard cable for a while,
but AirPlay mirroring allows us
to do away with that cable and
get a mirrored display wirelessly
from the iPad 2 or the iPhone 4S.
But it's not just the home
screen that gets mirrored.
Every app is mirrored.
And apps don't have to restrict
themselves to mirroring.
For example, in Keynote,
you can have the presentation on the
TV and the presenter display on the iPad.
But we can do the same thing with games.
Put our game state on the TV and
keep the controls in our hand.
And this need not be
restricted to racing games.
A pass-around game could
do the same sort of thing.
The user experience for mirroring is
similar to what we've seen before,
except that now the user goes
into the multitasking bar.
If an AirPlay device is in range,
then the route button will be displayed.
The user sees a list of possible
devices and can select an Apple TV.
When they do so,
they also get a mirroring button.
If the user selects that,
now when they click outside the menu,
The route button will once again
turn blue to indicate that content is
being routed away from the iOS device.
And when they return to the home screen,
the status bar will be blue.
to remind them that content is redirected
and there's also a small route icon
on the right side of the status bar.
AirPlay mirroring gets you a
wireless second display with
an iPhone 4S or an iPad 2.
When you connect either of
these devices via a cable,
you also get mirroring,
provided you're using a digital adapter.
With older devices, the iPhone 4, iPad,
and fourth generation iPod Touch,
you get a second display
without mirroring.
And on any device,
you get a non-mirrored second display
when you're using an older analog cable,
such as Component or Composite.
Once again, there are four steps to
supporting AirPlay mirroring.
The first step is
detecting the other screen.
In your application did
finish launching routine,
you need to do three things.
First of all,
you need to add an observer for the
UI screen did connect notification.
You need to add an observer
for the screen disconnect.
And because you don't get any
notifications for screens that
are present when you start up,
you need to also check
your initial setup.
Now notice that all three of these
call exactly the same method.
Here's the method we call.
In this method,
we first count the number of screens.
Then, if there is exactly one,
we set up our views for a single screen.
If there are exactly two,
we make a window,
associate it with the second screen,
and set up the view properly.
If we have more than two, we do nothing.
Why did I write it this way?
In this case,
there is a rare case where you can
temporarily have three screens.
The best thing you can do is
ignore the third screen's arrival
and fix things when the system
drops you back to two screens.
The second step is
choosing what goes where.
You need to think seriously about
what you're putting on each screen.
Where's the user's attention?
Is there more than one user?
Where are they each looking?
What should they see?
Also, performance might be an issue
if you have a 1080p display.
It might be that your app can't handle
that much data at a decent frame rate.
The third step is to manage orientation.
You should already be doing this right,
which is implementing "Should
auto-rotate to interface orientation".
If you do implement rotation yourself,
you need to make sure you do not
apply it to the second screen.
The fourth step is selecting
the screen mode or resolution.
We have a number of ways
of connecting a display.
We can do it from a number
of different iOS devices,
and we can connect it
to various sizes of TV.
Your resolution might be 720p, or 1080p,
or 1024x768, or 800x600, or 640x480,
or even NTSC or PAL.
How do you choose which mode,
which resolution to use?
Use the preferred mode.
The preferred mode is the optimal
resolution for the display.
It has the best aspect ratio,
the best quality.
It's determined by the system,
and it's chosen automatically,
so you don't need to do anything
to get the preferred mode.
It doesn't require a
hardware mode switch,
so you avoid a screen flash,
you launch faster,
and you don't use the TV scaler.
Having said all that,
there are cases where you may
want or need to use a mode
other than the preferred mode.
Let's look at this.
If you use the preferred mode,
this is good.
Optimal quality and no mode switch.
But you might not be able to achieve your
performance goals on a large display.
So you might render at a lower
resolution and use layer scaling.
You're still in the preferred mode,
but the layer scaling does take some
time and may introduce artifacts.
So you might choose a specific mode.
If you do this,
you may still have a display
that doesn't support the mode,
so you'll need to test a lot more,
and in any case,
you'll have a mode switch,
and you'll probably be going
through the TV's scaler.
So those are the four steps to
supporting AirPlay mirroring:
detect the other screen,
choose what goes where,
manage orientation,
and select the screen mode.
And those are the same
steps that you need to do to
support any external screen,
whether AirPlay mirrored
or via direct cable.
Except, to support external screens,
there's actually a fifth step,
which is handle overscan.
So what's overscan?
Let's take a look at a game image.
Let's say we have various status
things we want to put around the edge,
or your health and what not.
With an overscan display,
that can look like this.
Why is it chopping off
parts of the image?
Well, early CRT TVs had trouble being
consistent about scanning and
they could chop off images like
this due to hardware issues.
TV production reacted by
defining a title safe area,
which was the portion of your
screen that you could guarantee
was going to be visible on any TV.
So you can solve overscanning
by scaling your image so that it
fits within the title safe area.
But then you have black bars around the
edges because not all TVs need the most
pessimistic amount of overscanning.
Instead, what you want is for the image
to go to the edge of the screen,
but not lose any of your
important information.
So in iOS 5.0,
we added overscan compensation.
This knows about the amount of overscan
needed with various devices and allows
you three different ways of handling it:
scale, inset bounds,
and inset application frame.
Let's use a 720p display as an example.
If the display doesn't have overscan,
then the compensation is not there.
The option you set doesn't
make any difference.
If it is overscanned,
then the first choice is scale.
This is the default choice.
You get a 720p frame buffer and
the system scales that buffer
before sending it to the device.
So you don't lose anything,
but you're paying a
cost for that scaling.
The second choice is Inset Bounds.
Now this will give you an
oddly sized frame buffer,
but all the pixels will be visible.
Note the size I've mentioned
here is illustrative.
You may get different sizes for different
devices because different devices
have different amounts of overscan.
Now this choice avoids a scaling,
but it may be problematic for your app to
deal with these weird frame buffer sizes.
The last choice, Inset Application Frame,
gives you a 720p frame buffer,
but it sets the application frame
property to the title safe area.
Now you can write all over
that 720p frame buffer,
and you only need to pay attention to
the application frame when you want
something to definitely be visible.
So, five steps: detect the other screen,
choose what goes where,
manage orientation, select screen mode,
and handle overscan.
This supports any external screen,
whether connected via
AirPlay mirroring or via a cable.
So there you go.
As you can see,
adding AirPlay to your application
is very straightforward.
People are really going to want it,
and it's a great way to
differentiate your app from others.
I can't wait to hear about
the cool things that you're
planning to do with AirPlay.